
## INTRODUCTION

  This document will consist of my idea for my senior project, and the necessary work, research, and development it will take to complete this idea. This will include my motivation and reason for completing this project, what different works or studies that may be closely related to mine, specific steps and details that it took to complete my work for this project, and any plans for enhancement of this project in the future.
  This project is intended to educate those who may not be informed well about emissions and energy use, or even just beginning to learn about the subject, with an overall goal of diminishing the knowledge gap of global emissions and energy use with the general population. It will have the ability to teach people through means of an interactive website how and why renewable energy is the most beneficial option for humanity in the future to avoid further destruction of our surrounding environments. This will be achieved using an interactive map or maps that will include information on energy use, pollution, and other necessary information such as graphs or charts to support claims.
  The functionality of this project will consist of several maps that users will be able to interact with via hovering over or clicking on data for a specific region to display more information on that area, where the data is coming from, as well as anything else useful to know. Most of the data that will be displayed will consist of pollutants and carbon emissions, as well as the energy uses and types of energy used for a given area. Later functionality of this idea might include an area for users to input about themselves such as type of car driven, how much they drive, types of home appliances used for heating, cooling, cooking, and anything else so that they would be able to keep track of their own carbon footprint, possibly even being able to compare their carbon footprint to the averages around their area.
  There are many appliances and technologies within our daily lives that we don't necessarily understand how they work or were made, but we just understand that they work, especially when it pertains to the enrgy sources we use to complete all of these daily tasks. This project will give users the ability to see a general carbon footprint of their area, and possibly in further development they would even get to use the application to keep track of their carbon footprint. However, making people more conscious of how the world around them works and what helping expidite the rewnewable energy transition is the main goal of this project. Giving a person the power to visualize the way they are contributing to global pollution then certain people might be more obligated to make a change in their lifestyle, or complretely in the way that they use energy.
  It is necessary for a project like this to be created, because of much of the misinformation or false conspiracy theories that circulate the subject need to be eradicated, because making a change on a scale as big as the renewable energy transition, it will have to take all hands on deck across america to make the switch. This is why it would additionally be useful for a website that can efficiently relay this information through an interactive fashion, which is arguably one of the best ways for a person to retain information. This is why it would also be effective to use this website in a classroom setting where curious students can investigate with different dials or slide bars to account for different events, and learn for themselves, hands-on, about one of the most pressing issues of the 21st century.
  The world is facing big changes and a lot of it is to do with human activity, whether people like to admit it or not. However whether or not humans are the direct cause of all of this change does not make a difference in the fact that we will eventually run out of natural gas and coal. The national switch to renewables must be done before our other resources have been depleted, otherwise, what will we then use to create any other type of energy source? Either way, no switch this size will be able to happen overnight, and every small step that is taken towards realizing, acknowladging, and finally acting on a crisis helps to get us to the end goal. Realizing that climate change is natural regardless of humans, acknowledging that humans have peaked the extremes of the climate changes that we have been facing, and acting on those changes before it inevitably becomes irreversible are the three steps need to be taken by humanity. 
  we are facing real threats to our climate and environment, and whether or not humans are the direct cause, we are certainly not helping. However, being humans, we do have the ability to help reverse this problem and even help to prevent it from happenign again, all while creating safer earth to live on. If people can understand how they directly impact the environment environment around them that gets the world one step closer to creating a better place for the future civilizations to thrive, and that will be done by closing the knowledge gap of this subject by as much as possible.
  

## RELATED WORKS

* "Outdoor Air Pollution" by Hannah Ritchie and Max Roser - https://ourworldindata.org/outdoor-air-pollution
  - This article on outdoor air pollution and measures its volumes and affects on the environment, mostly putting the natural order of         countries industrializing to blame. Includes many statistics on the negative affects of air pollution on humans, specifically the           elderly, and how many deaths per year are likely to have occured from air pollution. This work directly concerns the bigger picture of      what my project will be trying to get at, and is a great template for displaying a message in an environmental aspect which I can           implement into my website.

* "CO2 Emissions Dataset: Our Sources and Methods" by Hannah Ritchie - https://ourworldindata.org/co2-dataset-sources
  - This is where I actually got the data for my artifact, so naturally, it has quite a close relation to the work that I will be doing in     my comp. This report explains the methods in which were taken to record and manipulate the data gathered on global emissions, and where     those datasets came from in the first place. The methods that are taken in this report are almost the exact same that I will have to be     taking in order to not only record the data that I'll be working with, but to also understand how I should implement it into my own         research project.
    

  
